[MUSIC]
>> Rachel Nabors: The nice thing about
skrollr is that it doesn't require you to
write any JavaScript or any CSS.
Once you have it on the page,
you set up the values that
change using data attributes.
So the same that data attributes that
work for Alice should also work for Tuna.
But there is one trick.
Those values that you were interpolating,
remember that the zero has
a percent sign next to it.
This is just a little quirk of skrollr.
The properties need to have
the same kind of values.
So it's not trying to interpolate
between picks and M so top should
be 0%, bottom should be 0%,
not 0, like you can write in CSS.
Remember to put that
percentage sign next to the 0.
So I noticed a lot of people
got the skrollr to work.
This is a fun project because you get
to work with both stateful animations,
her change in her attitude but
you also get to work with this dynamic
animation tied to the scroll position.
I say dynamic because it is interpolating
actively where it should be.
So the first part of this challenge and
the most important part was that we need
to get Tuna to flow from
the bottom to the top.
>> Rachel Nabors: Guys, all right.
So the first step is we're gonna take this
data attribute that we have on Alice,
data 0 and data 6124, and
we're gonna put them on Tuna, right?
So now, Tuna has, he's gonna move
in the same way Alice does, but
this is not what I described.
I described Tuna moving from the bottom to
the top in opposite direction of Alice.
So let's try changing those top to bottom.
Now we've got him moving
in the same direction.
But he doesn't move fully off the page.
And I want him to be fully off the page.
So let's try negative 200%.
And we're gonna go bottom 100%,
this will get him fully off, here we go.
So now he's there.
Make it 120.
And now that's working, and tunas
values are now automatically updating
via JavaScript, writing inline styles
as he moves up and down to confirm.
Let's inspect his element, and we can see,
if this thing gets out of the way,
Squish, so much tabbing and
indenting Chrome.
So you can see that the purple parts
are updating both for Alice and for Tuna.
But there's also something interesting
you may have noticed about Tuna.
I gave you a challenge to turn
him into the Cheshire cat.
If you inspected his element so
you looked at his HTML, you'd see that
there are some images inside him.
Some very damning images.
If you didn't know better, it almost
looks if you took one of them and
got rid of it,
he would be a completely different cat.
That would be this one.
If I said display none on that one, and
then I did opacity,
say this one has an opacity of 0.
If I did opacity 0 and a 1 on the red one,
suddenly Tuna has an expression so
there's actually three
images sandwiched there.
Some of them are hidden and
some of them aren't.
So we're going to want to change Tuna's
appearance based on those things.
Now we have an option here,
here's where the road splits.
You could use the dynamic animation,
you could take the same data
attributes that we used on Tuna.
Let's see.
Grab these and we could say well,
we wanna show Tuna.
We wanna have the real cat,
the Tuna glow changed in a different
rate from the black-tuna, so
we would put these both here.
And we would change the opacity from,
let's see, I might be doing this wrong.
Everybody feel free to correct me if I am.
>> Rachel Nabors: So
notice that now as we move up,
he fades in.
Woo, so cool, so awesome, right?
Nice.
Love you Tuna, you're awesome.
And we could change when that happens.
So that maybe it happens closer
to the middle of the page.
Instead of happening at the beginning,
we could change.
Let's say we start at 400 from the top.
And end it when it gets, so
notice we've delete it here by
changing those data attribute values.
And it's fully finished
before it reaches the top.
So that's one way we could have done it,
but there's another way, the stateful way.
You may have noticed
that as Alice is mood is
changing,
>> Rachel Nabors: [SOUND] As
she's changing,
the body class changes as well.
She goes curious, bored,
sleeping, waking, etc..
Well, the body class, it can scope any
of its contained elements to that.
So Tuna could technically change
his appearance when the body has
a class of bored by scooping
Tuna with that bored class.
Let's have a look at that.
So let's first figure out
exactly where we'd like
him to change into the Cheshire cat.
I would say that would be right about,
let's see, she's here,
she's looking around,
just getting a little bored.
And then she wakes up,
I would say maybe right about there.
So this is where she wakes up.
That would be, here's where I go find
that particular name for that thing.
There we go, bored, sleeping,
waking, waking Alice.
So around that time,
let's see, was Tuna glow so
waking tuna-glow and
it should be opacity 1.
So right around the time
that she wakes up boom.
But you noticed it happened all at once.
Right?
We could slow it down by overwriting
its default transitions,
I already added the transitions
to Tuna cuz I was
totally hoping you catch the Easter egg
but I'm gonna override some of that.
I'm gonna say transition-duration
should be 6 seconds here.
So now, when we scroll, and
she's waking up, he takes 6 seconds.
But notice that when you do stateful
animation like that, it takes 6 seconds.
It's not tied to how fast
the person is scrolling.
It just happens or it doesn't happen and
I would probably also define that.
While she's awake,
he would also remain opacity 1, etc..
You have to repeat yourself sometimes.
>> Speaker 2: I've got
a question from online.
>> Rachel Nabors: Yes.
>> Speaker 2: The question is from
Kevin L..
We would like to know what would be
the cons of attempting to use skrollrs,
viewport-anchors to interpolate
Tuna's position?
>> Rachel Nabors: I
don't think there would be any cons.
Skrollrs a pretty cool library,
it has a lot of options.
I don't do a lot with parallax so
I can't speak definitively on that.
But it has a lot of handy functions for
figuring out where things are located
inside it and sometimes even
recalibrating where things have moved to.
So if you're interested in using skrollr,
I highly recommend checking
out skit hub pages.
There are links in the show
notes as it were and
seeing what features
are available to you there.